
## Group definition

The set H with operation o called a group if satisfies the following properties (it means that we have a function f which takes some inputs $a_1,a_2,... a_n \in H$, returning $f(a_1,a_2,...)=a_1oa_2,...  )$ with tho following properties:
```
1- Closure: If a and b $\in$ H, then aob $\in$ H.

2- Associativity: For all a , b and c in H, then we have ao(boc)=(aob)oc

3- There exists an identity element e in H such that aoe=eoa=a

4- For each element a in H, there exists an element $ a^{-1} \in H $, called the inverse of a, such that $ aoa^{-1}=e$
```
For example consider the set of residue integers with the addition operation($ Z_{n}, + $), it's a cumulative group while ($ Z,\times $) and (Z , -) are not groups.

## Definition: Abelian group
we say that group G is abelian if for any a and b in G with operation o, we have aob=boa. The set Z_n with multiplication operation ($Z_n^{*} , .$) is an abelian group.



- Order of group: order of an elemnt a order(a) is  the smallest positive integer n such that aoa...oa=a^{n}=e.

## Cyclic group
It is said that G is a cyclic group if for an element a \in G with order(a)= |G| where |G| is the number of the groups' elements
we could define cycling group in another word: if there exists an element g such that any number of groups can be generated by g^{m} for some integer m.

Group elemnts: {g^0,g^1,...,g^m} for finite group and  $\{g^0,g^1,...,g^r,...\}$ for infinite group.

Finite group: group G is called finite if it has a finite number of elements. 

Generator or primitive element: an element in G with maximum order is called a generator.


Example of cyclic group: <$ Z^*, \times_11 $$> : {1,2,3,...,10} where
 - |G|=10: number of group's element
 - identity element: e=1
 - order(2): 2.2.2.2.2= $$ 2^{5}.2^{5}=32.32 mode 11 = -1.-1=1 -> order(2)=10 $$
 - generator =2

### Some interesting Number theories"
Lagrange theorem: if G is a multiplicative group with order n; |G|=n, then for each element k in G,
we have order(k) | n.

Lagrange theorem: If G is a multiplicative group with order n, and H is a subgroup of G, then |H| | |G|

Immediately, it is implied that every group G with order n where n is prime is a cyclic group. Therefore, if p is prime, Z_p is cyclic. 

Question: for all a \in Z*_n then a^\ph(n)=1 
 proof:    $$ \ph(n)= |z*_n|=n-1 -> a^n-1=a.a.a...a=? $$
 
 
Fermat theorem: if p is prime and a is an integer not divisable by p, then $$a^{p-1} (mode p)=1 $$, 
in other word, it means that
$$ a^{p-2}.a (mode p)=1 --> a^{p-2} $$ is the iverse of a. 
proof: a.a....a (mode p)=(a-p)(a-p)...(a-p)
example: p=5, a=6 ,then $$ 6^4 $$ (mode 5)=36.36 (mode 5)=1.1=1

Furthermore, it's obvious that we can deduce that for every a ,  $$ a^p (mode p)=a $$

Note: Algmal cryptosystem is based on Z*_n, as far as I know. ($$ {Z^{*}}_n $$ is a cyclic group)

## Subgroup: consider group (R , +) the subset S of R is called subgroup iff:




